This folder contains a collection of scripts used to generate  IR/ Power (raman) spectra from MD.

# Here are example workflows   used   to  generate spectra for co2
 readme-vels
 readme-vels-fast
 readme-vels-fastest

 do-movie2velsq         : Use this to  extract info  from DFTB+ 's  "movie.xyz"  for  IR.
                          Input include  atom range for analysis and type of data for autocorrelation

 octave-autocorr.inp    : This script  calculate autocorreclation function (very slow, in-house autocorrelation code)
 octave-autocorr2.inp   : This is faster. It uses conv() to calculate autocorrelation.
 octave-autocorr3.inp   : This is very fast. It uses xcorr() to calculate autocorrelation  from signal package.
                          Using xcorr()  requires installing  "signal" and "control" package 

 octave-fft1d-jj.m      : Basic script for IR spectra, it uses build in FFT routine, 
                          but also contains an  in-house written FFT routine jfft() in case  missing FFT libraries
 octave-fft1d-jj.m-damp : Same as above, only differece is that  exponential damping is turned on that activates
                          lorentzian broadening

 octave-lorentzian.inp  : This script can be used to apply lorentzian broadenig after the  FFT spectra are  generated.

 gnuscript-freqs        : Gnuplot  script example  for  FTIR (used for co2)
 gnuscript-dipole-freqs : Same as above

 do-sum-FTIR            : To get a reasonable FTIR spectra from MD often requires  running an  ensemble of MD runs.
                          The reason is that a single run may be biased  towards a specific vibrational mode or
                          even have some modes turned off during MD. This can show up as missing peaks or wrong intensities.
                         Then, running a  randomized ensemble of  MD trajectories  alleviates that issue. 
                         Running just  10 MD trajectories significantly improves intensites.  
                         With running 100 MD one can get ahnarmonic shoulders wings nicely reproduced as shown in CO2 example.
                         This script is an example  of bash script  that collects spectra from 100 MD runs into a single
                         file for plotting or analysis.

